---
layout: post
---

Often I wonder what enthralls me so about certain books. Certainly many different ones have influenced me over the course of the years. Starting with the *Harry Potter* series, and arriving at the *Discworld* series for now, there have been countless other stories that I have wholeheartedly lived within, sometimes for many months. 

Sometimes I wonder if perhaps it is the lure of doing things through characters that I could never do in real life? But I would hate having to fight monsters all alone, or struggle in the face of certain death only to succeed at the last second. Other times I wonder if I am jealous of these characters, for living in their own little contained worlds. But they face just as much strife, if not more, as I do in my own life. 

I think the solution I have happened upon over the years is that yes, I am jealous. I am jealous of their contained worlds not because it is better there, but because they are *contained*. In reading a book, one can usually figure out or guess the outcome. Upon *re*reading, one has the safety of knowing how it will turn out in the end, that no matter what the character is going through, everything will resolve *somehow*, and that alleviates the stress of the unknown. And one can go through the same mental struggles of the characters, living with them and through them, and know that it is all an illusion. That you can return to your own safe living world if you want to. And in a sense, while a book is an escape from real life, so can real life be an escape from a book. Being able to close the book when it becomes too much allows oneself to have almost godlike power over a tiny paper universe. 

One of the books that I have read many times over the years, and likely still will in the future, is *Ender's Game* by Orson Scott Card. I have struggled to pin down exactly what brings me back to it again and again. It is in part the beauty of Ender's struggle. It is his struggle to find himself after being thrust into complete isolation, surrounded by a scheming hierarchy of adults and children alike. And then there is his moral struggle after the fact, when he has to contend with what he has done. What he has led others to do, and what he will do after the fact. And he cleanses himself of his unknowing wrongdoing, in such a beautiful, compassionate way. Ender's compassion is something that I have always looked up to, even when it is paired with an indefatigable desire to survive and *win*. 

And so while books have been an escape for me, I also find myself in the characters that I read. I feel as if I have lived a thousand lives through others, and take a piece of them with me when I leave. My studiousness I can attribute to an early fascination with Hermione, my way of examining the world to Atrus ("What do you see, Atrus?"). I find more beauty in the everyday than I once did thanks to Tiffany Aching, and many other Discworld characters besides. And while I know I am not perfect, I know that I can strive to one day become a person worthy of being someone's favorite character, and maybe write a few characters of my own. 
